docs: guide getters (#5898)
vuestorefront/vue-storefront: packages/core/docs/guide/getters.md

**Getters should be used whenever possible to extract the data from composables**, e.g., when you want to get the quantity of the products in the cart in UI components.

## How can I use getters?

The getters accept arguments to get the data. As an example, we will use cart functionalities.
Most functions in `cartGetters` accept whole `cart` object or individual cart items. This data needs to be extracted from `useCart` composable first.
As the first example, we will use `getTotalItems` from `cartGetters` to get the total number of items in the cart.

```vue
<template>
  <div>
    <!-- ... -->
    <span>
      {{ cartTotalItems }}
    </span>
  </div>
</template>

<script>
import { computed } from '@vue/composition-api';
import { useCart, cartGetters } from '{INTEGRATION}';
import { onSSR } from '@vue-storefront/core';

export default {
  setup() {
    const { cart, load } = useCart();
    const cartTotalItems = computed(() => cartGetters.getTotalItems(cart.value);

    onSSR(async () => {
      await load();
    });

    return {
      cart,
      cartTotalItems,
    };
  }
}
</script>
```

**It's important to use getters as the computed property** to have them always updated:

> ```vue
> <!-- don't do this: -->
> <script>
> //...
>   export default {
>     setup() {
>       const cartTotalItems = cartGetters.getTotalItems(cart.value);
>       return {
>         cartTotalItems
>       };
>     };
>   }
> </script>
> ```
> 
> ```vue
> <!-- instead do this: -->
> <script>
> //...
>   import { computed } from '@vue/composition-api';
>   export default {
>     setup() {
>       const cartTotalItems = computed(() => cartGetters.getTotalItems(cart.value);
> 
>       return {
>         cartTotalItems,
>       };
>     }
>   }
> </script>
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```vue
<script>
  import {  cartGetters } from '{INTEGRATION}';

  export default {
    setup() {
    
     // Don't do this, because you lose reactivity
      const nonReactive = cartGetters.getTotalItems(cart.value);
      
      // Do this instead
       const reactive = computed(() => cartGetters.getTotalItems(cart.value);
    };
  }
</script>
```

Reviewer: This way we take less space and allow easier comparison

You can also use getters in template like so:

```vue
<!-- or this: -->
<template>
  <!-- ... -->
  <span>
    {{ cartGetters.getTotalItems(cart) }}
  </span>
</template>
<script>
//...
export default {
  setup() {
    const { cart, load } = useCart();

    onSSR(async () => {
      await load();
    });

    return {
      cart,
      cartGetters
    };
  }
};
</script>
```

## Available Getters

List of all available getters:

> 
> ### productGetters
> 
> composable: useProduct
> 
> [productGetters](#)
> 
> ### cartGetters
> 
> composable: useCart
> 
> [cartGetters](#)
> 
> ### wishlistGetters
> 
> composable: useWishlist
> 
> [wishlistGetters](#)
> 
> ### categoryGetters
> 
> composable: useCategory
> 
> [categoryGetters](#)
> 
> ### userGetters
> 
> composable: useUser
> 
> [userGetters](#)
> 
> ### userShippingGetters
> 
> composable: useUserShipping
> 
> [userShippingGetters](#)
> 
> ### userBillingGetters
> 
> composable: useUserBilling
> 
> [userBillingGetters](#)
> 
> ### userOrderGetters
> 
> composable: useUserOrder
> 
> [userOrderGetters](#)
> 
> ### reviewGetters
> 
> composable: useReview
> 
> [reviewGetters](#)
> 
> ### facetsGetters
> 
> composable: useFacet
> 
> [facetGetters](#)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Let's remove them for now since we don't have API reference yet. I added a note in JIRA.

# Getters

> The getters are closely connected to the composables. If you are not already familiar with the concept, please refer to the composables chapter first.

## What are getters?

> Getters are pure functions that allows you to receive properties from objects. They return an agnostic or a primitive type. It makes them independent from the backend, which is used in the project and let you change it without additional work on frontend site.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Getters are functions that allow you to get the data from the raw API responses. They return an agnostic or a primitive type. They allow you to write the same code regardless of the backend used.
```

> Each composable has its own getters object e.g. `cartGetters` named according to values they return, so **you should use getters dedicated for specific composable**. `getCartTotalItems` is one of getters functions accessible as `cartGetters` property. It is utilized to provide a total quantity of items currently present in the cart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each composable has its own dedicated getter, e.g. `useCart` and `cartGetters`. **You should only use getters dedicated to specific composable**.
```

## When should I use them?

> The getters are needed when you want to use data in UI components like e.g. quantity of the products that are in the cart currently. **They should always be used whenever it is possible to provide data from objects** such as `cart` or `products`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Getters should be used whenever possible to extract the data from composables**, e.g., when you want to get the quantity of the products in the cart in UI components.
```

## How can I use getters?

> In order to use `getTotalItems` you need to import `cartGetters` from your integration and then apply it as the computed property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The getters accept arguments to get the data. As an example, we will use cart functionalities.

Most functions in `cartGetters` accept whole `cart` object or individual cart items. This data needs to be extracted from `useCart` composable first.

As the first example, we will use `getTotalItems` from `cartGetters` to get the total number of items in the cart.
```

```vue
<template>
  <div>
    <!-- ... -->
    <span>
      {{ cartTotalItems }}
    </span>
  </div>
</template>

<script>
import { computed } from '@vue/composition-api';
import { useCart, cartGetters } from '{INTEGRATION}';
import { onSSR } from '@vue-storefront/core';

export default {
  setup() {
    const { cart, load } = useCart();
    const cartTotalItems = computed(() => cartGetters.getTotalItems(cart.value);

    onSSR(async () => {
      await load();
    });

    return {
      cart,
      cartTotalItems,
    };
  }
}
</script>
```

> The getters use arguments like `cart.value` in the function to get the data from. But they need to be extracted from composable `useCart` first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

This

```vue
<!-- don't do this: -->
<script>
//...
  export default {
    setup() {
      const cartTotalItems = cartGetters.getTotalItems(cart.value);
      return {
        cartTotalItems
      };
    };
  }
</script>
```

```vue
<!-- instead do this: -->
<script>
//...
  import { computed } from '@vue/composition-api';
  export default {
    setup() {
      const cartTotalItems = computed(() => cartGetters.getTotalItems(cart.value);

      return {
        cartTotalItems,
      };
    }
  }
</script>
```

You can also use getters in template like so:

```vue
<!-- or this: -->
<template>
  <!-- ... -->
  <span>
    {{ cartGetters.getTotalItems(cart) }}
  </span>
</template>
<script>
//...
export default {
  setup() {
    const { cart, load } = useCart();

    onSSR(async () => {
      await load();
    });

    return {
      cart,
      cartGetters
    };
  }
};
</script>
```

## Available Getters

List of all available getters:

### productGetters

composable: useProduct

```js
getName;
getSlug;
getPrice;
getGallery;
getCoverImage;
getFiltered;
getAttributes;
getDescription;
getCategoryIds;
getId;
getFormattedPrice;
getTotalReviews;
getAverageRating;
getBreadcrumbs;

> ```

Reviewer: Don't list all available function, only names of the getters like:

```
- [productGetters](./link/to/reference),
- [cartGetters](./link/to/reference),
- ...
```
